---
description: The token system of the standard Protocol
---

# Token Overview

## **Standard Token**

The Standard Token (TST) is a governance and utility token. It allows holders to participate in decisions on stability fee rates, new features and the onboarding of hard asset custodians / public tokens.&#x20;

TST is designed to keep the Protocol efficient, decentralised and transparent. The community of Standard Token holders who participate in the Protocol’s voting mechanism is named the Standard DAO.&#x20;

Unlike the Standard Euro, the Standard Token’s value is not stable or pegged to the Euro.

Standard Tokens can be acquired during the token sale or on secondary exchanges. The total supply of Standard Tokens is limited to one billion (1,000,000,000).&#x20;

{% content-ref url="the-standard-token-tst.md" %}
[the-standard-token-tst.md](the-standard-token-tst.md)
{% endcontent-ref %}

## **Standard Euro**

Standard Euro (“S-EURO”) is an algorithmic stablecoin that is backed by physical and digital assets and is soft pegged to the Euro. It is generated by locking up tokenised hard and digital assets in a Smart Vault (a mechanism similar to a traditional collateralised debt position) with a smart contract.&#x20;

The protocol will start with the S-EURO – more currencies will be introduced later including the US Dollar, GB Pound and Indian Rupee.

{% content-ref url="the-stable-euro-s-eur.md" %}
[the-stable-euro-s-eur.md](the-stable-euro-s-eur.md)
{% endcontent-ref %}

### **Use Cases**

The Standard Protocol enables asset investors to use their savings as an innovative form of financing, connecting the old world of inflation-proofed assets with the new world of decentralised assets. The Standard Protocol allows users to:&#x20;

* Protect savings against inflation
* Leverage the devaluation of fiat currencies&#x20;
* Optimize capital gains liability&#x20;
* Make direct instant peer-to-peer payments&#x20;
* Protection against third-party liquidators&#x20;
* Participate in DeFi protocols using physical collateral
* Leverage a portfolio to increase your positions
* Save mortgage and loan costs&#x20;
* Become a financial institution by generating the fiat stablecoins you need
* Shape the future of “Asset Backed Banking”

Selected precious metals and cryptocurrencies will be part of the protocol. However, tokenised physical assets like real estate will be included at a later date

The Standard Protocol is the next generation of retail banking. The user’s money will no longer need to be deposited in a bank account. Instead, their funds will be invested in assets. Whenever they need liquidity, instead of selling their assets, they can open a collateralised debt position (Smart Vault).
